bioc-galaxy Version 1 of blog post (#92)
Bioconductor/biocblog: posts/2025-06-27-bioc-to-galaxy/index.qmd

![](bioc-galaxy-image2.jpeg){fig-alt="Galaxy Home Page" fig-align="center" width="100%"}

## Using Bioconductor tools in Galaxy

While the conference highlighted the exciting potential of bridging together two of the most powerful open-source platforms in bioinformatics, there are other compelling reasons why this integration goes beyond a technical collaboration.

Bioconductor is a powerful ecosystem of R-based tools that allow for a wide range of analyses, from differential gene expression to advanced pathway enrichment. However, many of these tools remain underutilized, especially outside computational biology, simply because not all researchers are trained in programming nor have the computing access to run such analyses.

**Three key benefits for using Bioconductor tools in Galaxy are:**

1)  [**Benefiting researchers**]{.underline} with increased accessibility for researchers seeking more complex analyses without coding knowledge

2)  [**Benefiting developers**]{.underline} with increased visibility, recognition, and usage for developers as they expand the reach of their work

> 3)  [**Benefiting Galaxy and Bioconductor**]{.underline} by enabling Galaxy's core values (i.e., accessibility, reproducibility, & transparency) to reach the analysis complexity of Bioconductor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3)  [**Benefiting Galaxy and Bioconductor**]{.underline} by integrating Galaxy’s accessible, reproducible workflows with Bioconductor’s analytical power.
```

Reviewer: I think we should change that sentence to something like that suggestion, as Bioconductor also enables reproducibility, & transparency.
